Module 2 - Completion - Module Test

1. The `\n` digraph forces the `print()` function to:
- [ ] break the output line
- [ ] output exactly two characters: `\` and `n`
- [ ] duplicate the character next to the digraph
- [ ] stop its execution

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: break the output line
  - Reason: The digraph, called the _newline character_, causes the current line to end at the point indicated by the digraph, and creates a new line that starts right after it.
</details>

---

2. The meaning of the **keyword parameter** is determined by:
- [ ] the argument's name specified along with its value
- [ ] its position within the argument list
- [ ] its connection with existing variables
- [ ] its value

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: the argument's name specified along with its value
  - Reason: Keyword parameters (also called _named parameters_) are parameters that have values determined by a keyword name followed by an equals sign (_=_) and a default value assigned to that keyword name. An example of a keyword argument: `def my_function(==x=1==):`.
</details>

---

3. The value **twenty point twelve times ten raised to the power of eight** should be written as:
- [ ] `20.12E8`
- [ ] `20.12*10^8`
- [ ] `20.12E8.0`
- [ ] `20E12.8`

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: `20.12E8`
  - Reason: Keeping in mind that Python chooses the most efficient format for presenting numbers, and the letter _E_ is used to mean _ten to the power of_ in scientific notation, the correct way of writing the number _20.12 × 108_ is `20.12E8`.
</details>

---

4. The `0o` prefix means that the number after it is denoted as:
- [ ] octal
- [ ] binary
- [ ] decimal
- [ ] hexadecimal

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: octal
  - Reason: If an integer number is preceded by `0o` or `0O`, it will be treated as an octal value. For example: `0o246` is an octal number with a decimal value equal to _166_.

    If an integer number is preceded by `0x` or `0X`, it will be treated as a hexadecimal value. For example: `0x246` is a hexadecimal number with a decimal value equal to _582_.

    Finally, if an integer number is preceded by `0b` or `0B`, it will be treated as a binary value. For example: `0b1111` is a binary number with a decimal value equal to _15_.
</details>

---

5. The `**` operator:
- [ ] performs exponentiation
- [ ] does not exist
- [ ] performs floating-point multiplication
- [ ] performs duplicated multiplication

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: performs exponentiation
  - Reason: The _**_ operator performs the exponent arithmetic in Python. It is also called the _power operator_.
</details>

---

6. The result of the following division:

```
1 / 1
```

- [ ] is equal to `1.0`
- [ ] is equal to `1`
- [ ] cannot be evaluated
- [ ] cannot be predicted

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: is equal to `1.0`
  - Reason: The _/_ operator is one of the two types of division operator in Python that divides its left operand by its right operand, and **returns a floating-point value**.

    The _//_ operator, called the _floor division_ operator, performs a similar operation, but rounds down the result and returns an integer number.
</details>

---

7. Which of the following statements are **true**? (Select **two** answers)
- [ ] The right argument of the `%` operator cannot be zero.
- [ ] The `**` operator uses right-sided binding.
- [ ] The result of the `/` operator is always an integer value.
- [ ] Addition precedes multiplication.

<details>
  <summary>Answers</summary>

  - Answer: The right argument of the `%` operator cannot be zero. AND The `**` operator uses right-sided binding.
  - Reason: The _%_ operator (modulus) returns the remainder of a division, and because you cannot divide by zero, the right operand must be a non-zero number. Otherwise, a ZeroDivisionException will be raised.

    The _**_ operator uses right-sided binding, which means the expression _2**2**3_ is evaluated from right to left: _2**3 = 8_, and _2**8 = 256_.
</details>

---

8. Left-sided binding determines that the result of the following expression:

```
1 // 2 * 3
```

is equal to:
- [ ] `0`
- [ ] `4.5`
- [ ] `0.0`
- [ ] `0.16666666666666666`

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: `0`
  - Reason: Left-sided binding means that the expression is evaluated from left to right: _1 // 2 = 0_, and _0 * 3 = 0_.
</details>

---

9. Which of the following variable names are **illegal**? (Select **two** answers)
- [ ] `True`
- [ ] `and`
- [ ] `true`
- [ ] `TRUE`

<details>
  <summary>Answers</summary>

  - Answer: `True` AND `and`
  - Reason: _True_ and _and_ are Python keywords (reserved words), and they cannot be used as variable names. And since Python is case-sensitive, the names _true_ and _TRUE_ are perfectly legal, though not necessarily the best names.
</details>

---

10. The print() function can output values of:
- [ ] any number of arguments (including zero)
- [ ] any number of arguments (excluding zero)
- [ ] just one argument
- [ ] not more than five arguments

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: any number of arguments (including zero)
  - Reason: The _print()_ function can take no arguments at all (e.g. `print()`), three arguments (e.g. `print("one", "two", "three")`, or three thousand three hundred thirty three… (though we haven’t actually checked it!).
</details>

---

11. What is the output of the following snippet?

```python
x = 1
y = 2
z = x
x = y
y = z
print(x, y)

```

- [ ] `2 1`
- [ ] `1 2`
- [ ] `1 1`
- [ ] `2 2`

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: `2 1`
  - Reason: Let’s analyze this example:
	- the value _1_ is assigned to variable _x_, and variable _x_ is initiated (so _x = 1_)
	- the value _2_ is assigned to variable _y_, and variable _y_ is initiated (so _y = 2_)
	- the value assigned to variable _x_ is assigned to variable _z_, and variable _z_ is initiated (so _z = 1_)
	- the _x_ variable is assigned the value which is assigned to variable y (so _x = 2_)
	- the _y_ variable is assigned the value which is assigned to variable z (so _y = 1_)
	- the values ssigned to variables _x_ and _y_ are now printed, giving the following output: `2 1` (note: the _print()_ function separates the outputted values with a whitespace)
</details>

---

12. What is the output of the following snippet if the user enters two lines containing 2 and 4 respectively?

```python
x = input()
y = input()
print(x + y)

```

- [ ] `24`
- [ ] `2`
- [ ] `4`
- [ ] `6`

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: `24`
  - Reason: Let’s analyze this example:
	- the _input()_ function reads the arguments entered by the user (_2_ and _4_ respectively) and **converts them to strings**,
	- variables _x_ and _y_ are assigned the strings inputted by the user,
	- the _print()_ function outputs the result of the _concatenation_ operation to the screen (the process of adding/merging strings): `"2" + "4"`; the _+_ operator adds a string to another string, and outputs `24`.
</details>

---

13. What is the output of the following snippet if the user enters two lines containing 2 and 4 respectively?

```python
x = int(input())
y = int(input())

x = x // y
y = y // x

print(y)

```

- [ ] the code will cause a runtime error
- [ ] `2.0`
- [ ] `4.0`
- [ ] `8.0`

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: the code will cause a runtime error
  - Reason: Let’s analyze this example:
	- the _x_ variable is assigned the integer value of _2_ (_2_ is inputted by the user, converted to a string by the _input()_ function, and then converted to an integer by the _int()_ function)
	- the _y_ variable is assigned the integer value of _4_ (_4_ is inputted by the user, converted to a string by the _input()_ function, and then converted to an integer by the _int()_ function)
	- an operation is performed resulting in the _x_ variable being assigned the value of _0_ (_2 // 4=0_)
	- an operation is being performed, but a ZeroDivisionException is raised, because the _//_ operator cannot accept _0_ as its right operand. The program is terminated.
</details>

---

14. What is the output of the following snippet if the user enters two lines containing 2 and 4 respectively?

```python
x = int(input())
y = int(input())

x = x / y
y = y / x

print(y)

```

- [ ] `8.0`
- [ ] `4.0`
- [ ] `2.0`
- [ ] the code will cause a runtime error

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: `8.0`
  - Reason: Let’s analyze this example:
	- the _x_ variable is assigned the integer value of _2_ (_2_ is inputted by the user, converted to a string by the _input()_ function, and then converted to an integer by the _int()_ function)
	- the _y_ variable is assigned the integer value of _4_ (_4_ is inputted by the user, converted to a string by the _input()_ function, and then converted to an integer by the _int()_ function)
	- an operation is performed resulting in the _x_ variable being assigned the value of _0.5_ (_2 / 4 = 0.5_)
	- an operation is performed resulting in the _y_ variable being assigned the value of _8.0_ (_4 / 0.5 = 8.0_)
	- the value assigned to the _y_ variable (`8.0`) is printed to the screen.
</details>

---

15. What is the output of the following snippet if the user enters two lines containing 11 and 4 respectively?

```python
x = int(input())
y = int(input())

x = x % y
x = x % y
y = y % x

print(y)

```

- [ ] `1`
- [ ] `2`
- [ ] `3`
- [ ] `4`

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: `1`
  - Reason: Let’s analyze this example:
	- the _x_ variable is assigned the integer value of _11_ (_11_ is inputted by the user, converted to a string by the _input()_ function, and then converted to an integer by the _int()_ function)
	- the _y_ variable is assigned the integer value of _4_ (_4_ is inputted by the user, converted to a string by the _input()_ function, and then converted to an integer by the _int()_ function)
	- an operation is performed resulting in the _x_ variable being assigned the value of _3_ (_3 % 4 = 3_)
	- an operation is performed resulting in the _x_ variable being assigned the value of _0_ (_3 % 11 = 0_)
	- an operation is performed resulting in the _y_ variable being assigned the value of _1_ (_4 % 3 = 1_)
	- the value assigned to the _y_ variable (`1`) is printed to the screen.
</details>

---

16. What is the output of the following snippet if the user enters two lines containing 3 and 6 respectively?

```python
x = input()
y = int(input())

print(x * y)

```

- [ ] `333333`
- [ ] `18`
- [ ] `666`
- [ ] `36`

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: `333333`
  - Reason: Let’s analyze this example:
	- the _x_ variable is assigned the value of "`3`" (_3_ is inputted by the user and converted to a string by the _input()_ function)
	- the _y_ variable is assigned the value of `6` (_6_ is inputted by the user, converted to a string by the _input()_ function, and then converted to an integer by the _int()_ function)
	- the _print()_ function outputs the result of the following string multiplication: `"3" * 6`, that is `333333`
</details>

---

17. What is the output of the following snippet?

```python
z = y = x = 1
print(x, y, z, sep='*')

```

- [ ] `1*1*1`
- [ ] `1 1 1`
- [ ] `x*y*z`
- [ ] `x y z`

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: `1*1*1`
  - Reason: Let’s analyze the example:
	- the variables _z_, _y_, and _x_ are declared and initialized, and the value _1_ is assigned to each of them by using the mechanism of assigning the same value to multiple variables,
	- the values assigned to the three variables are printed to the screen and separated by the _*_ symbol using the _sep_ keyword argument.
</details>

---

18. What is the output of the following snippet?

```python
y = 2 + 3 * 5.
print(Y)

```

- [ ] the snippet will cause an execution error
- [ ] `25.`
- [ ] `17`
- [ ] `17.0`

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: the snippet will cause an execution error
  - Reason: Python is case-sensitive, so _y_ and _Y_ are two different variables. Since the program attempts to print to the screen a value associated with a variable that does not exist in the local namespace, Python doesn’t recognize it, and a _NameError_ exception is raised.
</details>

---

19. What is the output of the following snippet?

```python
x = 1 / 2 + 3 // 3 + 4 ** 2
print(x)

```

- [ ] `17.5`
- [ ] `17`
- [ ] `8`
- [ ] `8.5`

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: `17.5`
  - Reason: The principle of operator precedence (order of operations) takes effect here. Let’s see what happens here:
	- first, the _4 ** 2_ expression is evaluated with _16_ as the result,
	- second, the _1 / 2_ expression is evaluated with _0.5_ as the result,
	- third, the _3 // 3_ expression is evaluated with _1_ as the result,
	- finally, the three values are added (_0.5 + 1 + 16_), and the resulting value (_17.5_) is assigned to the _x_ variable and printed to the screen.
</details>

---

20. What is the output of the following snippet if the user enters two lines containing 2 and 4 respectively?

```python
x = int(input())
y = int(input())

print(x + y)

```

- [ ] `6`
- [ ] `24`
- [ ] `2`
- [ ] `4`

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: `6`
  - Reason: The values _2_ and _4_ are inputted by the user, converted from strings to integers, and assigned to the _x_ and _y_ variables respectively. The _print()_ function outputs the result of integer addition (_2 + 4_) to the screen.
</details>