- *program*: made of three actions: input, processing, output
- *language*: means (and a tool) for expressing and recording thoughts
- *instruction list/IL*: a complete set of commands, it is the alphabet of a machine language
- *natural language*: a language developed naturally
- *machine language*: a language used by computers
- *language*: consists of the following: an alphabet, a lexis, a syntax, semantics
- *programming language*: languages far more complex than machine language (high-level) and yet far simpler than natural language in order to enable humans to express commands to computers that are much complex than those offered by ILs.
- *source code*: a program written in a high-level programming language. Similarly, the file containing the source code is called the **source file**.
- computer programming: the act of composing the selected programming language's elements in the order that will cause the desired effect. The effect could be different in every specific case – it's up to the programmer's imagination, knowledge and experience.
- *function*:
    - positional argument: arguments passed in the positional way which means the meaning of the argument is dictated by its position
    - keyword argument:
        - the meaning of these arguments is taken not from its location (position) but from the special word (keyword) used to identify them
        - it consists of three elements: a **keyword** identifying the argument; an **equal sign** and a **value** assigned to the argument. Any keyword arguments have to be put **after the last positional argument**
- *literal*: data whose values are determined by the literal itself. Ex.: `123` vs `c`. `123` is *one hundred twenty three*. What about `c` though? Does it represent any value? Maybe. It can be the symbol of the speed of light, for example. It can also be the constant of integration. Or even the length of a hypotenuse in the sense of a Pythagorean theorem. There are many possibilities. **You cannot choose the right one without some additional knowledge.** And this is the clue: `123` is a literal, and `c` is not. You use literals **to encode data and to put them into your code**.
- operator: symbol of the programming language, which is able to operate on the values.
- expressions: formed when data and operators are connected together. The simplest expression is a literal itself.
- variable: the name of an ordinary variable is the **name of its content**
	- **comes into existence as a result of assigning a value to it**; 
    - Remove variable when it only has one purpose: Note that in the program that you can see in the editor, the `hypo` variable is used for only one purpose ‒ to save the calculated value between the execution of the adjoining line of code. As the `print()` function accepts an expression as its argument, you can **remove the variable** from the code.]
    - they are called *scalar* when they store exactly one given value at a time
- comment: a remark inserted into the program, which is ommited at runtime. Used to describe each important piece of code (e.g. by explaining the role of the variables) or marking fragments of code that aren't currently needed for whatever reason.
- type casting: type conversions
- nesting: using an if statement inside of another if statement or having a list inside of a list
- loop's body: an instruction or set of instructions executed inside a loop 
- multi-line printing: using triple quotes to print strings on multiple lines in order to make text easier to read, or create a special text-based design.
- **syntactic candy**/sugar: additions, which don't improve the language's expressive power, but only simplify the developer's work. Example: `continue` and `break`
- `continue` statement
- control variable: by default on `for` loops but optional on `while`
- *sorting*: processing like printing items from the smallest to the largest
- list: the name of a list is the name of a **memory location where the list is stored**.
	- **a type of data** in Python used to **store multiple objects**, a very dynamic entity.
	- It is an **ordered and mutable collection** of comma-separated items between square brackets.
- index/indices: The value inside the brackets which selects one element of the list
- *indexing*: operation of selecting an element from the list
* A *slice* is an element of Python syntax that allows you to **make a brand new copy of a list, or parts of a list**. It actually copies the list's contents, not the list's name.
* *decomposition* is the process of dividing the code into well-isolated pieces, and encoding each of them in the form of a function in order to simplify the work of a program, because each piece of code can be encoded separately.
* **shadowing**: mechanism that allows a **variable named the same as a function's parameter** (only inside a function)