Module 1 - Completion - Module Test

1. What is machine code?
- [ ] A high-level programming language consisting of instruction lists that humans can read and understand
- [ ] A low-level programming language consisting of binary digits/bits that the computer reads and understands
- [ ] A medium-level programming language consisting of the assembly code designed for the computer processor
- [ ] A low-level programming language consisting of hexadecimal digits that make up high-level language instructions

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: A low-level programming language consisting of binary digits/bits that the computer reads and understands
  - Reason: Machine code is a program written in machine language, which consists of sequences of digital binary numbers: _0_s and _1_s.
</details>

2. What are the four fundamental elements that make a language?
- [ ] An alphabet, morphology, phonetics, and semantics
- [ ] An alphabet, a lexis, phonetics, and semantics
- [ ] An alphabet, a lexis, a syntax, and semantics
- [ ] An alphabet, phonetics, phonology, and semantics

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: An alphabet, a lexis, a syntax, and semantics
  - Reason: Each language, be it machine language or natural language, consists of an alphabet, a lexis, a syntax, and semantics.
</details>

3. What do you call a file containing a program written in a high-level programming language?
- [ ] A code file
- [ ] A source file
- [ ] A target file
- [ ] A machine file

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: A source file
  - Reason: A source file is a file that contains source code, that is, a program’s instructions.
</details>

4. What is **true** about compilation? (Select **two** answers)
- [ ] Both you and the end user must have the compiler to run your code
- [ ] The code is converted directly into machine code executable by the processor
- [ ] It tends to be faster than interpretation
- [ ] It tends to be slower than interpretation

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answers: The code is converted directly into machine code executable by the processor AND It tends to be faster than interpretation
  - Reason: The compiler translates (compiles) the source program (a set of high-level language instructions) into machine code (a lower-level representation of the source program). The sequence of _0_s and _1_s can be then executed by the processor. The execution of the compiled code is usually faster than interpretation.
</details>

5. What is the best definition of a **script**?
- [ ] It's an error message generated by the compiler
- [ ] It's a text file that contains sequences of zeroes and ones
- [ ] It's a text file that contains instructions which make up a Python program
- [ ] It's an error message generated by the interpreter

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: It's a text file that contains instructions which make up a Python program
  - Reason: A script is a set of high-level language commands in a file, structured to be executed like a program. A Python script is therefore a file containing code written in Python.
</details>

6. Select the **true** statements. (Select **two** answers)
- [ ] Python is a good choice for low-level programming, e.g., when you want to implement an effective driver
- [ ] Python is a good choice for creating and executing tests for applications
- [ ] Python is free, open-source, and multiplatform
- [ ] Python 3 is backwards compatible with Python 2

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answers: Python is a good choice for creating and executing tests for applications AND Python is free, open-source, and multiplatform
  - Reason: Python is a free and open-source programming language available to everyone. It is a multi- and cross-platform language, which means a Python program written on a Linux system will run on a Mac, and vice versa.

  Because Python is relatively easy to learn and contains simple syntax, it is a good choice for testers.
</details>

7. What is **CPython**?
- [ ] It's a programming language that is a superset of the C language, designed to produce Python-like performance with code written in C
- [ ] It's a programming language that is a superset of Python, designed to produce C-like performance with code written in Python
- [ ] It's the default, reference implementation of Python, written in the C language
- [ ] It's the default, reference implementation of the C language, written in Python

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: It's the default, reference implementation of Python, written in the C language
  - Reason: CPython is the original (traditional) Python language implementation written in the C language, as opposed to other, non-default implementations, such as Jython, implemented in the Java language, which came later. CPython is the Python language implementation available for download from [www.python.org](https://www.python.org/), and the first to adopt new features that come with all the subsequent Python versions.
</details>

8. What do you call a command-line interpreter which lets you interact with your OS and execute Python commands and scripts?
- [ ] A compiler
- [ ] An editor
- [ ] A console
- [ ] Jython

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: A console
  - Reason: A Python console is a command-line interpreter that allows you to execute Python commands, instructions, and scripts line by line. Just like the one here: [www.python.org/shell](https://www.python.org/shell/).
</details>

9. What is the expected behavior of the following program?

`print("Hello!")` 

- [ ] The program will output `Hello!` to the screen
- [ ] The program will generate an error message on the screen
- [ ] The program will output `("Hello!")` to the screen
- [ ] The program will output `"Hello!"` to the screen

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: The program will output `Hello!` to the screen
  - Reason: The program will print the string _'Hello!'_ to the console. The _print _function simply prints the specified message, in our case 'Hello!', to the screen.__
</details>

10. What is the expected behavior of the following program?

`prin("Goodbye!")` 

- [ ] The program will output `"Goodbye!"` to the screen
- [ ] The program will generate an error message on the screen
- [ ] The program will output `("Goodbye!")` to the screen
- [ ] The program will output `Goodbye!` to the screen

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

  - Answer: The program will generate an error message on the screen
  - Reason: The program will raise a _NameError_ exception, because Python cannot recognize the name _prin_. Python doesn’t know that you’re most probably trying to use the word _print_, not _prin_.
</details>